Golden Tickets
Going back to the explanation
of Kerberos authentication,
when a user submits a request for a TGT,
the KDC encrypts the TGT
with a secret key known only
to the KDCs in the domain.
This secret key is actually the
password hash of a domain user account
called krbtgt.
If we are able to get hold of the
krbtgt password hash,
we could create our own
self-made TGTs, or golden tickets.
For example, we could create a TGT
stating that a non-privileged user
is actually a member of the
Domain Admins group,
and the domain controller will trust
it since it is encrypted correctly.
This is a great way of keeping persistence
in an Active Directory environment,
but the best advantage is that
the krbtgt account password
is not automatically changed.
Because of this, it is not uncommon to
find very old krbtgt password hashes.
To test this persistence technique, we
first login as the offsec user.
Then we’ll try to laterally move from
the Windows 10 workstation
to the domain controller via PsExec.
This failed because we do not
have the proper permissions.
At this stage of the engagement, we should
have access to an account that is a member
of the Domain Admins group or we have
compromised the domain controller itself.
With such access, we can
extract the password hash
of the krbtgt account with Mimikatz.
To simulate this, we’ll log in
to the domain controller
via remote desktop using
the jeff_admin account.
Then we’ll run Mimikatz
from the C:\Tools folder,
and issue the lsadump::lsa command.
Creating the golden ticket and
injecting it into memory
does not require any
administrative privileges,
and can even be done from a machine
that is not domain-joined.
We’ll take the hash,
and continue the procedure
from a compromised workstation.
Before generating the golden ticket,
we delete any existing Kerberos
tickets with kerberos::purge.
We’ll supply the domain SID, which
we found earlier with whoami,
to the Mimikatz kerberos::golden
command to create the golden ticket.
This time we’ll use the /krbtgt option
to indicate we are supplying
the password hash,
and we set the golden ticket’s
username to fakeuser.
This is allowed because the
domain controller trusts anything
correctly encrypted by
the krbtgt password hash.
Mimikatz provides two
sets of default values
when using the golden ticket option,
namely the user ID and the groups ID.
The user ID is set to 500 by default,
which is the RID of the built-in
administrator for the domain,
and the values for the groups ID
consist of the most privileged groups
in Active Directory, including
the Domain Admins group.
With the golden ticket
injected into memory,
we can launch a new command
prompt with misc::cmd…
and again attempt lateral
movement with PsExec.
We now have an interactive command
prompt on the domain controller,
and notice that the whoami command…
reports that we are the user fakeuser,
which does not exist in the domain.
Listing group memberships…
shows that we are a member
of multiple powerful groups
like the Domain Admins group.
Excellent!
Note that by creating our own TGT followed
by PsExec, we are performing
the overpass the hash attack by
leveraging Kerberos authentication.
If we try to connect to the IP
address of the domain controller
instead of the hostname using PsExec…
it forces the use of NTLM authentication
and access would still be blocked.